# cargo external-doc

This tool allows you to add markdown files to your crate's documentation
generated with rustdoc.

The documentation generated by `rustdoc` is meant for code and API references,
and does not offer a nice way to add long form documentation. This tool
will fix that until [rustlang/cargo#739](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/739)
is implemented.

## Installation

`cargo external-doc` is installed via `cargo install`:

```
$ cargo install cargo-external-doc
```

## Usage

Put your articles written in markdown in the `doc/` subfolder of your
project (see [nom](https://github.com/Geal/nom/tree/master/doc) for an example).

`rustdoc` requires that the files are prefixed with a title like this:

```
% Your title here
```

Now, run `cargo build` then `cargo external-doc`. This tool will:

- call `cargo doc`
- test the code examples in the files from `doc/`
- generate html files consistent with `rustdoc`'s templates and put them in `target/doc/your_crate`

Your other documentation files can reference it by relative URL, like this for a `doc/guide.md` file:

```markdown
cf the [guide](guide.html)
```

## Caveats

This tool is a temporary solution, until something better is
[integrated in `cargo doc`](https://github.com/rust-lang/cargo/issues/739).

It does not support overriding values like the target path.

It relies on the `target/debug/libyourcrate.rlib` file existing.

It does not check for invalid links.

It is not configurable.

It fits a need I have for [nom](https://github.com/Geal/nom), and it might
not fit what you want. I'm open to modification ideas and patches, but I'd
prefer to see it implemented correctly in `cargo doc` instead.
